					Differences between Document and Window Objects




Document object & Window object, their various properties & the differences between them.



Document Object:

The document object represent a web page that is loaded in the browser. By accessing the document object, we can access the element in the HTML page. With the help of document objects, we can add dynamic content to our web page. The document object can be accessed with a window.document or just document.


Syntax:

document.property_name;

Properties:

title: It returns the title element of the document.

head: It returns the head element of the document.

body: It returns the contents of the body element.

anchors: It returns all <a> elements that have a name attribute.

baseURI: It returns a string value that represents the base URI of the document.

domain: It returns the domain name of the document server.

doctype: It returns the document’s doctype.

embeds: It returns the collection of all embedded elements.

URL: It returns the complete URL of the document.





Window Object: 

The window object is the topmost object of the DOM hierarchy. It represents a browser window or frame that displays the contents of the webpage. Whenever a window appears on the screen to display the contents of the document, the window object is created. 

Syntax:

window.property_name;


Properties:

Top: It returns a reference to the topmost window containing a frame if many windows are opened.

Toolbar: It will result in the toolbar object, whose visibility can be toggled in the window.

Opener: It contains a reference to the window that opened the current window.

Location: It contains the URL of the current window.

innerHeight: It is used to get the height of the content area of the browser window.

innerWidth: It is used to get the width of the content area of the browser window.

Name: It contains the name of the referenced window.

Window: It returns the current window or frame.

Navigator: It returns a reference to the navigator object.

outerHeight: It will get the height of the outside of the browser window.

outerWidth: It will get the width of the outside of the browser window.

Status: It overrides the default status and places a message in the status bar.



Difference between document and window:

Document

It represents any HTML document or web page that is loaded in the browser.

It is loaded inside the window.

It is the object of window property.

All the tags, elements with attributes in HTML are part of the document.

We can access the document from a window using the window. document

The document is part of BOM (browser object model) and dom (Document object model)

Properties of document objects such as title, body, cookies, etc can also be accessed by a window like this window. document.title

Syntax:

      document.propertyname;

Example:

     document.title :  will return the title of the document.




Window


It represents a browser window or frame that displays the contents of the webpage. 

It is the very first object that is loaded in the browser.

It is the object of the browser.

Global objects, functions, and variables of JavaScript are members of the window object.

We can access the window from the window only. i.e. window.window

The window is part of BOM, not DOM.

Properties of the window object cannot be accessed by the document object.

syntax:

window.propertyname;

Example:

window.innerHeight : will return the height of the content area of the browser